QPDFPRESENTERCONSOLE(1)
=======================


NAME
----
qpdfpresenterconsole - displays PDF presentation in a fancy manner


USAGE
-----
*QPdfPresenterConsole* ['OPTIONS'] ['FILE']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
The QPdfPresenterConsole(1) software aims at making Beamer presentation
more funny than ever, allowing speaker to have better view of its slides
on the main screen. It reads presentation from the file 'FILE' if given,
otherwise a file ope dialog will show up to allow the user to open a
PDF.

You need to have several desktops enabled to make use of the software,
otherwise it won't start. For example, Windows in Extended Desktop mode
or any Xorg with XRandR and not in clone mode. There is a notion of main
screen and projector screen: it's pretty trivial to understand. Think of
someone giving a talk with his laptop. He will want to have his laptop's
screen showing him the current slide, the next slide, date/time, how
much time he has left, notes, etc. This is what we call the "main
screen". The "projector screen" is the one where you will have only the
current slide, and which will be displayed to the audience.

Slides are not rendered real-time: doing this would introduce latency,
and this is bad. Instead, some prerendering is done, but unlike "Pdf
Presenter Console", not for all slides (did you already tried to do this
on a huge pdf with many kind of complex TikZ pictures ? Say hello to Out
of Memory Killer ...), just three:
 - the previous slide, thus allowing smooth going backward ;
 - the next slide, thus allowing sooth going forward ;
 - and the current slide, that gets copied from one or the other.
At runtime, this means that we just do the necessary, nothing more.
Prerendering can benefit from multiple cores since we make use of
Qt::ConcurrentRun to start it.

All the options available are presented below, and some of them are
changeable at runtime, via the Options dialog which can be trigged by
pressing down the 'o' key. Also, please note that there is no menu bar,
so everything is access by keyboard shortcuts.

KEY BINDINGS
------------
=== Exiting
    You can exit properly the application by using the Escape key.

=== Mini/Maximizing main screen
    You can minimize or maximize (depending on the previous state ...)
    the main screen window simply via the F key. It can allow you to
    lock you laptop during a break ...

=== Slides navigation
    Scrolling slides is easy and has several key binding:
     - Going to the next slide is done using either Enter, Right, Down
       or Page Down. Left mouse button click will also work. This will
       automatically start the presentation timer if you did not started
       it yet ;
     - Going to the previous slide is done using either Left, Up, or
       Page Up. Right mouse button click will also work. This will
       automatically start the presentation timer if you did not started
       it yet ;
     - Going to the first slide is done using Home. This will
       automatically reset the presentation timer ;
     - Going to the last slide is done using End ;
     - Going to a specific slide is done through a dialog box triggered
       by G key.

=== Start presentation timer
    You might want to start the presentation timer before starting
    scrolling slides.

NOTES
-----
QPdfPresenterConsole allows displaying PDF-specific embedded notes. They
will be displayed on the main screen, below both the current and next
slide. You might want to check with the 'beamer.pdf' and 'beamer.tex'
files provided with the package.

Technically, those are hidden annotations (subtype text) in the PDF
file, using an out-of-standard name "BeamerNote". It should allows
producing PDF file where QPdfPresenterConsole can find the specific
notes while not perturbing other software (tested with Evince and Adobe
Reader 9).

Warning: Notes are exploiting Qt's QLabel displaying capabilities. That
means they can use any HTML that Qt allows. Using LaTeX commands will
*NOT WORK* (for example \ldots). No strict ruling on display constraints
is provided for the moment, so you should make sure your notes are not
too long and/or check before the talk that nothing brokes. No real harm
here, just unpleasant display and behavior on the main screen.

OPTIONS
-------

*-d, --duration*='DURATION'::
    The 'DURATION' parameter defines the length of the presentation, in
    minutes. Basically, it's the time slot you have in a session. The
    countdown won't start until you start your presentation, or you
    press the Space key.

*-e, --emergency*='VALUE'::
    At which time before the end of the allocated time (as defined by
    'DURATION') should the user be warned that we are reaching the end
    of his talk. The 'VALUE' is given in minutes, and when the timer
    reaches this point, it will change the 'DURATION' time display font
    to red, in order to attract user's attention that he has not much
    time left.

*w, slides-width*='PERCENTAGE'::
    The 'PERCENTAGE' value defines the width of the current (i.e. the
    one that is currently displayed on the projector screen) slide on
    the main screen. As per its name, it's a percentage value. Warning:
    no boundary checking is done on this value, and you should change it
    carefully, it can break display (for example, you could have parts
    of the main screen that gets on the projector screen).

*p, page*='PAGE'::
    Specify at which 'PAGE' the 'FILE' should be open. This can be
    useful if you are teaching a class and that you have several
    sessions planned: you can re-open your slides right where you
    stopped during the previous session.

*m, mainscreen*='MAINSCREENID'::
    Allows to set the main screen as 'MAINSCREENID'. Values depends on
    your OS and your screens configuration. Defaults values are adapted
    when laptop's screen being at the left of the projector screen, be
    it under Linux or Windows.

*s, projectorscreen*='PROJECTORSCREENID'::
    Allows to set the main screen as 'PROJECTORSCREENID'. Values depends
    on your OS and your screens configuration. Defaults values are
    adapted when laptop's screen being at the left of the projector
    screen, be it under Linux or Windows.

*'FILE'*::
    This is the filename to open. If not specified, the application will
    ask to the user which file it should open, through a file open
    dialog.


EXIT STATUS
-----------
*0*::
    Success.

*1*::
    Failure.


BUGS
----
None, it's a perfect software. Please report bugs through Gitorious'
messages or by mail.


AUTHOR
------
Written by Alexandre Lissy, <alexandre.lissy@etu.univ-tours.fr>


RESOURCES
---------
Gitorious: <https://gitorious.org/qpdfpresenterconsole>


COPYING
-------
Copyright \(C) 2011 Alexandre Lissy. This software is released under
the terms of the MIT License.

